>> Richard Feldman: Type Parameter Design.
So here are three different
ways we could write a function
to take a list of attributes, and
they all have different tradeoffs.
So one is taking a list of attributes
with an unbound message type.
The middle one is taking a list of
attributes with a concrete message
type that is our actual message type.
And the third one is taking a list
of attributes with the Never type.
If you're not familiar with Never,
fear not, we're about to get into it.
Okay, so
here's a sort of a motivating use case for
why we might choose one
of this three things.
So let's say I'm at my REPL and
I put in a HTML.text Hi.
And it says okay, that's Html message with
an unbound type variable, no big deal.
Here's another Html function,
this is the paragraph tag.
So if we're gonna make an Html paragraph,
so it takes a list of attributes,
a list of Html and returns list of Html.
And they all share a common
messaged type variable there.
So I can put that into the REPL, say
paragraph and not give it any attributes.
Say text Hi, it says cool, Html msg
is the return value because I gave it
unbounded list right here
because it's any empty list.
I gave it a list of Html
message right here.
As we saw for the previous example, that's
also Html with an unbound message type.
So if I give it a list
with unbound type and
then another list which has HTML with
an unbound message, the result is we
still have HTML with an unbound
message type at the end of all that.
That’s why this paragraph returns as Html
with still an unbounded message type.
Okay, we can also put our
onClick handler on there.
So onClick has this signature.
It takes a message and
then returns Attribute message.
So that is not unbound, that's bound to
the message argument that it receives.
So as soon as I give this paragraph
onClick of absolutely anything,
whatever I pass to onClick in there
is going to be something concrete.
So onClick's gonna give
me that thing back.
And then we're now gonna have
Html paramaterized on that.
So now we've ended up with
Html Message with a capital M,
which is to say a concrete type,
it's no longer unbound.
Now all of this works.
All of this compiles.
All of this is perfectly functional.
The only problem with it
is it's not very semantic.
Why does your paragraph
have a click handler?
What are you doing?
That's something that's totally valid.
The browser will accept it, it'll work.
But from an accessibility perspective,
how is someone supposed to guess
that's going to be clickable?
That's very non-semantic html.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could rule that
out, and sort of say, hey, you know what?
That's not what paragraphs are for.
They're for other stuff, don't do that.
If you you wanna put an onClick handler,
do it on a button or something like that,
where it's actually semantically
intended to be used that way.
So my coworker, Tessa Kelly, has
a library, and actually she gave a talk at
Elm Conf US last year about this
library called accessible-html.
And that's exactly what it does.
So her library is essentially
a drop in replacement for
the basic html library and it
implements certain constraints like this
based around accessibility best practices.
One of which is that paragraph
has a slightly different type
than the one in the normal
Elm Html package.
So it takes as its second
argument a list of children,
which works the same as before.
And then it returns Html message,
which has the same type variable as
that list of children, but
the attributes are a little bit different.
The attributes,
instead of taking List Attribute message,
like we did before,
now it takes List Attribute Never.
So again,
we'll get into what Never is in a moment.
But the important thing is
that it's a concrete type, and
it's not our message type,
it's a third thing.
So going back to this example that we
had at the REPL before, paragraph,
empty list, text Hi,
that'll still compile.
It will give us back HTML message with
an unbounded type just like before.
And the reason for that is that the first
argument we're passing is an empty list,
which is a list with an unbounded type,
which means that yeah,
that'll absolutely unify.
The constraints will unify with attribute
never because this sucker unifies with
anything.
So although it's demanding an Attribute
with Never as it message type, it says,
you must give me an Attribute
that has this Never type.
It has to produce a message of that type.
It's only kind of saying that because
really with the way that Elms type
inference works and
can string unification,
it'll accept something that
unifies with anything.
Even though we actually don't have
the ability necessarily to produce one of
these things.
So this'll work.
It'll give us back HTML message,
still an unbound type variable,
just exactly like before.
So so far, so
good, so far, we're using it exactly the
same way as we would in either library.
Now, let's try to put
a click handler on it.
Well now, we have a problem because
this produces, this right here,
this is a list of Attribute message
with a capital M as we saw before.
That is a bound type variable, it is
a concrete type, it is our message type.
It is most emphatically not Attribute
Never, which is what this type demands.
So this will be a type mismatch.
I tried to put a click handler on my
paragraph and it did not compile.
Ouch, but good for accessibility,
that was the whole goal.
However, I can still put
other attributes on there.
For example, I can put a class on there,
like if I want to style my paragraph,
that's totally fine.
Because there's a whole set of attributes
which return unbound attributes.
So class returns and actually,
with an unbound message,
which means that it produces a list of
attributes of that unbound message.
I could put class on there,
I could put id on there,
I could put any number of
accessibility attributes on there.
All of those things are totally fine
because they return attribute with
an unbound message,
which we'll unify with attribute never.
Because they'll unify with anything.
So in this way we've specifically ruled
out with sort of like laser precision only
things that are interactive.
Things that actually can produce a message
that gets sent to update which is
exactly the point.
One way you can think of this type is,
this is a paragraph that takes
a list of inner attributes.
Attributes that do not
produce any interaction.
In other words, paragraphs are static.
You can style them all you want.
You can add accessibility
attributes all you want.
You can give them whatever
children you want.
The only thing you can't do is
put event handlers on them.